
NODElib should build on most systems with little difficulty.  If any
tweaking of NODElib is necessary, all changes will probably be
restricted to the file etc/Configure.  In general, to build the full
system, you must have: GNU gcc, GNU make, ar, ranlib, nroff, perl,
sed, and perhaps awk.  GNU tar may also be needed if you are a
developer that plans on distributing the system.

To build everything:

 1) Check that the program variables listed in etc/Configure are
    reasonably set.  You may need to specify explicit paths for the
    programs if your system is deficient.

 2) Try ``make all'' from the root directory.

 3) If the documentation fails to build, use ``make libs''.  You may
    also find a pre-built version which includes documentation.

 4) If all else fails, use etc/Makefile.dos as a template and roll
    your own Makefile for the src directory.  See etc/INSTALL for
    Makefile / GNUmakefile details.
--

Details of the GNUmakefile:

  make libs       - Makes a version information header file in etc,
                    all *.o files in src, and links the *.o files into
                    a library file in the lib directory.

  make docs       - Makes all man pages in the man directory and all
                    *.html files in the html directory.

  make all        - Approximately equivalent to ``make libs docs''.

  make clean      - Removes src/*.o files and binaries in etc.

  make distclean  - Same as ``make clean'', but removes lib/libnode.a
                    as well.

  make realclean  - Removes all machine generated files, including man
                    pages and html files.

  make tar        - Makes the plain distribution.  The output is
                    placed in the etc directory.

  make bigtar     - Makes the pre-built distribution with man pages and
                    html files.  The output is placed in the etc
                    directory.

  make zip        - Makes a prebuilt version suitable for a DOS system.
                    The output is placed in the etc directory.  All
                    files in the main distribution are included, but
                    they may be renamed and/or relocated.  In particular,
                    all of the original Makefiles will be placed in
                    the etc directory, with a three letter extension
                    to indicate it's original location.  Thus, in
                    theory, one could reconstruct the original
                    distribution from the PC distribution.

  make dist       - Makes tar, bigtar, and zip, and moves the archive
                    files to the ".." directory.

  make newdist    - Makes everything and, reinstalls it all on the AS
                    file servers, updates my web page, and ftp site, etc.